>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There's two
way to tackle forms in Angular 2.
You have template driven forms and
reactive forms, and
we are going to today tackle
template driven forms.
This is the closest or
this is more close in line to how forms
are handled in Angular 1 and
I think in terms of getting up and
running, this is by far the simplest.
So we'll just start, template driven
forms and we'll go from there,
cuz I think once you understand
template driven forms.
It's really easy to kind of
make that leap into reactive
forms where you are essentially
declaring your form model,
your underlying model in the component and
not in the template.
So we're going to talk about
the FormsModule, Form Controls and
then some validation or
more specifically, Validation Styles.
So first and foremost,
in courtesy of the Angular CLI,
we do not have to worry
about this directly.
But if you're going to use forms,
we need to import the FormsModule.
So, this is not part of Angular Core.
So if we go into our code base,
you will notice that,
just close all this down real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In the app module,
we are importing the FormsModule.
And within our imports,
we're importing it as well.
So now essentially, we're making
forms available to our application.
Now if this was reactive,
if we were doing, essentially forms,
we would need to import that module.
So, so far so good.
We want forms.
We need the FormsModule.
Boom, done.
Well, ngModel.
So, that's pretty cool.
I think everybody, we know about this.
I've only been hammering at it for
two days as the poster child for
two-way data binding and
what this does is under the hood,
it also creates a FormControl.
And so
if you remember when I was talking about,
you have a form that represents some data,
but
equally important is we need
to keep track of the state,
of the form and
that is where FormControls or FormGroup.
So a form group is just
a group of form controls.
But we have this underlying
mechanism under the hood that is
used to keep track of
essentially not only the data or
the state of our form, but
rather the condition of the form.
Is it valid?
Yes or no?
And so we saw kind of a mini
example yesterday, but
we'll jump into that in a moment.
And so in fact, let's just do that now.
Why not?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
if we go to I don't know,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go to actually
widget detail.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
I wanna see if I can actually work in here
without actually solving your
challenge for you, we'll see.
So if we create a form,
actually I don't even need a form.
Let's go input.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: NgModel.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's say, my value.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually,
let's do, I don't know.
Title and we'll go my input.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then what we'll do.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
using the local reference variable,
we're just keeping track of this input.
And then from here,
we can pull some information off.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here we go.
Now unfortunately, because we're calling
to JSON, sometimes this breaks and
you create like a circular reference
where you're kind of referencing
something that references something
else that references itself and
I think this will probably throw up and
it did.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
let's go back here and we can do value.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now,
what I also want to point out here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is you can also track.
So using the local reference variable,
you could essentially
track the value of this input, but
it's not essentially true to a data.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go back.
And so I think I have to, so
what you have to do is essentially
create another event for that to update.
So you notice here, I'm typing and so
I don't want to get in the weeds here,
but you can go here, here.
And once you do that, that will update.
So by having ngModel up here, it forces
that tick and allows it to update.
So, let's back this up and let's continue.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: More so, actually,
let's back this up even more.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we can directly, actually reference.
So before, I was actually not referencing
the ngModule on that element,
but using myInput ngModel,
let's see what happens if I go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is this
gonna throw up or not?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Again,
circular reference.
More so,
what I wanna
try is.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
let's just talk about what I've just done.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
using a local variable reference.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like this, I can pull
just, I'm basic creating a reference to
the input and then using .value,
I can pull the value off of that input.
Not particularly well,
it's a way to actually pull,
essentially values off of
inputs without binding to it.
The caveat to that is in order for
you to get the latest one,
you essentially need an Angular tick or
some Angular event for that to update.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: What's
the significance of ngModel,
because title then if it's my
input that it's referencing?
Where does title come into place?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now,
this is we're binding this input to
the value of title on the component class.
So, let me just set this here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Why am I here man!?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go back.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So essentially,
we're using ngModel to set
the value of the input and
to track it, but
then we can also bypass ngModel and
just get the underlying HTML value
creating the local reference.
So when you actually just set,
essentially pound some variable name,
that would just reference
the element itself,
cuz we're not assigning it to anything.
And so now if I go like this, you can see
that they are essentially one in the same.
Because when I update ngModel,
it's updating the value of that input.
So, this is just a lower
level way to reference that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
if we go back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If I go like this and
this is.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Where
things get interesting.
We can actually reference my input or
this local variable
to point to the underlying
form control on this element.
So now, we just go like this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let this refresh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Because
this is required.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Our ngModel,
which is essentially a form control.
This is keeping track of the value and
the validity.
So really just think of value, valid.
What's the value?
And is it value?
But notice now that it's empty,
it's saying, this is false.
No [FOREIGN].
But then once I type it up, instantly,
I now have real-time basically
feedback of the state of this input.
So anybody who is doing
forms in their application,
especially line of business apps.
Validation is a big part of this and
this is how you keep track of this.
So, Angular's put or done a really
good job of creating kind of this
underlying form control to keep
track of the validity of your form.
And because there's times, like it's
not in a valid state, we do not want
to proceed or if it's not in a valid
state, we need to convey that to the user.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
right now, we are referencing
ngModel via a local variable in and
of the self.
I think this is good for
demonstration purposes, but
where it really gets interesting is when
we start to do this in the context of
an entire form which we'll
see in just a moment.